USEID-582: Add ADR for certificate pinning (#13)
digitalservicebund/useid-architecture: doc/adr/0006-no-certificat-pinning.md

# 5. No certificate pinning

Date: 2022-12-01

## Status

Accepted

## Context

> During the identification flow, the eID-Client connects to the server of a Service Provider (eService) and 

Reviewer: Is it really called 'eService'?

Author: "eService" is the term for Service Provider (Diensteanbieter) which is used in the technical guidelines.

> to an eID-Server. Therefor, a TLS connection is being established and the eID-Client validates the server identity 

Reviewer: `Therefore`

Author: I used "Therefor" on purpose. Is that not how you use it? See [here](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/therefore-vs-therefor/#:~:text=Therefore%20is%20an%20adverb%20that,%E2%80%9D%20or%20%E2%80%9Cfor%20it.%E2%80%9D)

Reviewer: Oh, I did not know that word existed.

by checking if the server certificate is signed by a trusted root CA. Connections could be restricted to servers with 
specific certificates only instead of trusting all signed certificates which is called "certificate pinning".

The eID-Client is generically implemented and only knows which servers to connect to once an identification
flow has been started (by retrieving the `tcTokenUrl` and reading the `tcToken`). 

## Decision

The eID-Client will not restrict connections to servers with specific certificates since those 
would need to be hardcoded in the eID-Client which is not possible since the servers are only
known on start of the identification flow.

## Consequences

> Man-in-the-middle attacks on the TLS connection are possible if an attack can get in possession of a certificate

Reviewer 2: Suggestion (sentence was just rewritten):
```suggestion
A man-in-the-middle attack on the TLS connection is possible if an attacker comes into possession of a certificate signed by a trusted root CA for a domain used in the identification flow.
```

Author: Thanks! Suggestion applied. :)

> certificate signed by a trusted root CA for a domain used in the identification flow.

Reviewer: A direct consequence is that it is easier to inspect the traffic between the eID-Client and the eService by installing and trust a Root CA on the mobile device and then use software like Charles Proxy etc. to inspect the traffic.

Reviewer: certificate pinning can also make it more difficult to debug
